[MUSIC]
I'll talk a little bit
about client-server model.
We need to have this information so
we can start programming,
connecting to the Internet through
programs rather than just as users.
So client-server model describes
most of the interactions, or
many interactions over the network
on the Internet, between machines.
So this is not completely all inclusive.
Sometimes you're talking peer-to-peer but
client-server's a very common model for
communication on the Internet.
So client-server model,
you've got these two processes running,
a client on one machine,
a server on another machine.
The server is guarding some resource,
whatever the resource might be.
So say it's a print server, then
the client might want to print something,
it sends that thing to the server,
says please print.
It sends a request to the server,
please print.
And the resource would be the printer
itself and the server prints it or
doesn't, it sends a response,
says look, I printed it.
Or a web server, the client sends
a request to the web server,
says server give me the contents of this
Web page, the resource is going to be
the contents of the Web pages and
the server gets the resource,
sends it back in the response
to the client, and so on.
So this client-server model is a very,
is a common protocol,
common model that's used on the Internet,
because the server manages
the resource whatever it is and
the client that makes request.
So the server accepts request, waits for
request, I had to sit there listening,
waiting for request and
then it sends the responses that have
the results of whatever the request is.
Now, [COUGH] Internet connections,
the client and
the server communicate over
a connection on the Internet.
And the socket, this term socket,
a socket is the endpoint of a connection.
So if there's a connection
between a client and a server,
there's going to be two sockets, right,
one for the client on its end, and one for
the server on its end.
So they'll be listening to sockets.
And this term socket,
we're going to use this, because,
once we start writing network code,
we're going to be creating sockets,
opening sockets,
closing sockets, and so on.
So a socket is really
a programming concept for
how you're going to
connect on the network.
Now, we've already defined a port, again,
it's a 16-bit integer that
identifies a process.
The reason why we want to
bring it up again is because
a socket is really associated
with an IP address,
the host of the socket that the processor
is running on and the port.
So if you take an IP address and
a port together that's,
a socket is always associated with
an IP address and a port, okay?
And with that has active
communication going over it.
So ports and servers, so in this picture
we got two machines, on the left,
you got the client machine, and
on the right you got the server machine.
Now actually notice that on
the left I've got two clients,
two client processes
running on here at once.
I've got a web client,
I also got an SSH, secure shell client.
On the right I've got my server machines.
It's got two servers,
a web server and an SSH server.
And there are two connections going on,
right,
web client is talking to web server.
Secure shell client is talking
to secure shell server.
Now, notice that they're
talking on different ports.
So you can think of the, well,
okay, so web clients, they use,
I don't know if I got the port number
right, web clients use port number 80.
So, you can see that,
notice that if you look at the request,
because it's a request, 192.1.1.1,
which is the IP address, colon 80,
80 is the port number for web traffic.
Then secure shell client,
it says same IP address but colon 22.
I might have that wrong it might be 23,
I really don't remember but
it doesn't matter too much.
You can Google that, but the number
after the colon is support number.
So notice that there are several ports
being used on two different machines at
the same time.
So multiple clients and servers can
exist on the same machine, right?
You can have multiple clients,
web client and secure shell client,
you could have any number of clients on
there as long as they're each associated
with different points on the machine,
you could have as many as you want.
Server processes listen
to their assigned ports.
So, the web server is listening to its
port, the SSH server is listening to its
port and they only hear traffic that
comes in on their particular ports.
So, the client processes,
a client process sends a request
to the server IP address
on the particular port
that's associated with that operation,
with that application.
So, if it's a web client,
it's going to send it to port 80,
because port 80 is
associated with web traffic.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]